Creepers were originally a coding mistake when trying to create pigs.
Minecraft was officially released in 2011.
Endermen can pick up and move certain blocks.
The End poem appears after defeating the Ender Dragon.
Minecraft is the best-selling video game of all time.
Spiders can climb vertical surfaces.
Villagers communicate by making “hmm” sounds.
Diamonds generate most commonly below Y-level 16.
You can hear cave sounds even when no mobs are nearby.
Minecraft was created by Markus “Notch” Persson.
Nether portals can spawn in unusual places if obsidian is generated randomly.
The Wither is the only boss that drops Nether Stars.
Ghasts shoot explosive fireballs in the Nether.
Piglins barter with gold ingots.
Zombie villagers can be cured with a splash potion of Weakness and a golden apple.
Endermen are neutral unless provoked or looked at directly.
Slimes spawn in specific chunks below Y-level 40.
Redstone can be used to create complex circuits and traps.
Iron golems protect villages from hostile mobs.
A skeleton horse can be spawned during a thunderstorm if struck by lightning.
Shulkers hide in End cities and shoot projectiles that cause levitation.
Mushroom islands have no hostile mob spawns except for strays.
The enchantment “Mending” repairs items using XP orbs.
The Elytra allows you to glide through the air.
You can respawn the Ender Dragon using End crystals.
Beehives and bees were added in version 1.15.
Wolves can be tamed using bones.
Cats can be tamed using raw fish.
The “Far Lands” were a bug in older versions of Minecraft.
You can dye sheep different colors.
The Nether Update added new biomes and mobs.
Glowstone can be used as a light source in the Nether.
Frost Walker boots allow you to walk on water by freezing it.
Lava can be used to fuel furnaces.
You can fish up treasure items like enchanted books and bows.
Banners can be customized with patterns.
The Piglin Brute is stronger than a regular Piglin.
Striders can walk on lava in the Nether.
Campfires produce smoke that can be seen from far away.
The “Bedrock” layer is unbreakable in Survival mode.
End cities contain valuable loot including Elytra and shulker boxes.
Bats spawn in dark areas of caves.
Potion brewing allows players to create buffs and debuffs.
Tridents can be thrown or used in melee combat.
Phantoms spawn if players skip sleeping for three nights.
Minecart rails can be powered using redstone torches.
Ladders allow vertical movement without scaffolding.
Turtles lay eggs on beaches and their babies hatch automatically.
Totems of Undying prevent death once when held in the offhand.
Villager professions determine their trades.
Mojang originally developed Minecraft as a Java game.
The game has cross-platform versions, including Bedrock and Console editions.
Music discs can be found in dungeons or dropped by creepers killed by skeletons.
The “End Gateway” allows access to outer End islands.
Netherite tools are stronger than diamond tools.
The Wither Skeleton drops a rare skull used to summon the Wither boss.
Beacons provide buffs like speed or strength when powered correctly.
Banner patterns can be combined for custom designs.
Redstone comparators measure signal strength for advanced circuits.
Endermen become passive during rain.
Farms can be fully automated using redstone and pistons.
Llamas can form caravans and follow each other.
Rabbits drop rabbit hide, which can be crafted into leather.
Villagers sleep at night in beds in villages.
Slimes make “slime” sounds when they move and jump.
Phantoms are immune to sunlight and spawn at night if players skip sleeping.
